LAB : Google Cloud Fundamentals: Getting Started with Compute Engine

Objectives:

In this lab, you will learn how to perform the following tasks: 
1.Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.
2.Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud-line interface.
3.Connect between the two instances.

Steps:
Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Console.
	gcloud compute instances  create my-vm-1  --machine-type “n1-standardd-1” --image project “debian cloud”  --image “debian-9-stretch-v20190214” --subnet “default” --tags http
	gcloud firewall -rules create allow http –action=ALLOW -destination=INGRESS --rules=http: 00  --target-tags=http

Create a Compute Engine virtual machine using the gcloud command-line interface.
	gcloud config set compute/zone us-central1-b
	gcloud compute instances create my-vm-2  --machine type “n1-standard-1” --image-project “debian-cloud” --image “debian-9-stretch-v20190213” –subnet “default”

Connect between the two instances.
	Use the plug command to confirm that my vm-2 can reach my-vm-1 over the network:
		Connect to my-vm-2:
			Gcloud compute ssh my-vm-2
	Ping my-vm-1 from my-vm-2:
		Ping –c 4 my-vm-1
	Use the ssh command prompt on my-vm-1, install the Nginx web server:
		sudo apt-get install nginx-light –y

Use the nano text editor to add a custom message to the home page of the web server:
		sudo nano /var/www/html/index.ngiinx.debian.html

Use the arrow keys to move the cursor to the line just below the h1 header. Add text like this, and replace YOUR_NAME with your name:  
Hi from Cynthia

Exit the editor and confirm that the web server is serving your new page. At the command prompt on my-vm-1, execute this command: 
curl http:/localhost/
		The response will be the HTML source of the web server’s home page, including your line of custom text.

Now get the external IP of my-vm-1 instance from this command:
	gcloud compute instances list  --zone us-central1-a

Paste the copied IP address of my-vm-1 into a new browser tab and hit enter.

Result: You will see your web server’s home page, including your custom text.



